New: jsx-curly-newline rule (#2240)
yannickcr/eslint-plugin-react: docs/rules/jsx-curly-newline.md

# Enforce linebreaks in curly braces in JSX attributes and expressions. (react/jsx-curly-newline)

Many style guides require or disallow newlines inside of jsx curly expressions.

**Fixable:** This rule is automatically fixable using the `--fix` flag on the command line.

## Rule Details

This rule enforces consistent linebreaks inside of curlies of jsx curly expressions.

## Rule Options

This rule has a string option:

* `consistent` enforces either both of linebreaks around curlies are present, or none are present.
* `multiline` enforces that when the contained expression spans multiple line, require both linebreaks. When the contained expression is single line, disallow both line breaks.

> * `multiline-lax` (default) enforces that when the contained expression spans multiple line, require both linebreaks. When the contained expression is single line, disallow inconsistent line break.

Reviewer: this seems like `consistent-multiline` would be a better name

Author: I think that consistent multiline sound like a consistent version of multiline, but that is not true. Because multipline is already consistent.

Author: I think multilinelax is fit because it is like multiline, but more permissive when the expression is single line.

Reviewer: Looking at eslint core, there's a number of rules that have an object option with a `multiline` boolean, and a `consistent` boolean - if we only allowed multiline, multiline + consistent, and consistent, that seems like it'd cover it more clearly?

Author: `multiline + consistent = multiline`. `multiline` already implied consistent.

Author: in `multiline` either both newline are present, or both newline are absent.  So a code that is valid in `multiline` is also valid in `consistent`. Consistent is the "weakest" option.

Reviewer: I don't find the current schema clear.

It sounds like you want the following characteristics controllable:
1. force both linebreaks on a multiline expression, or not
1. disallow inconsistent linebreaks on a one-line expression, or disallow any linebreaks on a one-line expression.

So, what about:
```js
"multiline": "consistent" // or "ignore" or "forbid" or "require"
"single-line": "consistent" // or "ignore" or "forbid" or "require"
```
That way any setting can be configured without a subjective word like "lax", and it's extensible since it's an object option.

Author: This might be good. I was trying to think in the box of precedent eslint core rules, and tries to follow the convention established there.

Author: I don't like the option schema
> ```js
> "multiline": "consistent" // or "ignore" or "forbid" or "require"
> "single-line": "consistent" // or "ignore" or "forbid" or "require"
> ```
because there are 4*4 combinations, therefore many test cases to write. But in practice only a few of them make sense, so instead might as well just pick the few good options and give them a string name like `multiline`. It also saves users time by reducing their choices.

Reviewer: Which don't make sense? We can use schema validation to only permit the desired combinations.

Author: Now I feel I was wrong thinking most of them don't make sense. However I think it is safe to not support the `ignore` option (just use `consistent`).

Author: How about this option schema?
```ts
"never" |
"consistent" |
{
  "single-line": "require" | "forbid" | "consistent" ,
  "multiline": "require" | "forbid" | "consistent" ,
}
```

Reviewer: That seems good; let's update the PR and see what the test cases and docs for each combination look like :-D

Author: Now I feel I am ok to live with the simple option schema `"never" | "consistent"`, dropping the multiline option. Are you interested in this direction?

# Enforce linebreaks in curly braces in JSX attributes and expressions. (react/jsx-curly-newline)

Many style guides require or disallow newlines inside of jsx curly expressions.

**Fixable:** This rule is automatically fixable using the `--fix` flag on the command line.

## Rule Details

This rule enforces consistent linebreaks inside of curlies of jsx curly expressions.

## Rule Options

This rule accepts either an object option:

```ts
{
  multiline: "consistent" | "forbid" | "require", // default to 'consistent'
  singleline: "consistent" | "forbid" | "require", // default to 'consistent'
}
```
Option `multiline` takes effect when the jsx expression inside the curlies occupies multiple lines.

Option `singleline` takes effect when the jsx expression inside the curlies occupies a single line.

> * `consistent` enforces either both of linebreaks around curlies are present, or none are present.

Reviewer: i think "around curlies" might not be the proper term, since that implies "surrounding the curlies" (outside) as opposed to "inside". Maybe:
```suggestion
* `consistent` enforces either both curly braces have a line break directly inside them, or no line breaks are present.
```

> * `forbid` disallows linebreaks around curlies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `forbid` disallows linebreaks directly inside curly braces.
```

> * `require` enforces the presence of linebreaks aounrd curlies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `require` enforces the presence of linebreaks directly inside curlies.
```

or an 

### consistent (default)

When `consistent` or `{ multiline: "consistent", singleline: "consistent" }` is set, the following patterns are considered warnings:

```jsx
<div>
  { foo
  }
</div>

<div>
  {
    foo }
</div>

<div>
  { foo &&
    foo.bar 
  }
</div>
```

The following patterns are **not** warnings:

```jsx
<div>
  { foo }
</div>

<div>
  { 
    foo
  }
</div>
```

### never

When `never` or `{ multiline: "forbid", singleline: "forbid" }` is set, the following patterns are considered warnings:

```jsx
<div>
  { 
    foo &&
    foo.bar
  }
</div>

<div>
  { 
    foo
  }
</div>

<div>
  { foo
  }
</div>
```

The following patterns are **not** warnings:

```jsx
<div>
  { foo &&
    foo.bar }
</div>

<div>
  { foo }
</div>
```

## require

When `{ multiline: "require", singleline: "require" }` is set, the following patterns are considered warnings:

```jsx
<div>
  { foo &&
    foo.bar }
</div>

<div>
  { foo }
</div>

<div>
  { foo
  }
</div>
```

The following patterns are **not** warnings:

```jsx
<div>
  { 
    foo &&
    foo.bar
  }
</div>

<div>
  {
    foo
  }
</div>
```

## When Not To Use It

> You can turn this rule off if you are not concerned with the consistency around the linebreaks inside of JSX attributes or expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can turn this rule off if you are not concerned with the consistency of padding linebreaks inside of JSX attributes or expressions.
```
